@node Demo programs
@chapter Demo programs
The programs directory contains small demonstration of the libraries.
These scripts are implemented in the way recommended by @rnrs{}
non-normative appendix D.

If you're packaging these libraries then I would recommend against
installing the demos in the default program search path.

@menu
* checksig::     checksig -- verifies OpenPGP signature files
* honingsburk::  honingsburk -- simple Secure Shell honey pot
* secsh-client:: secsh-client -- manually operated Secure Shell client
@end menu

@node checksig
@section checksig -- verifies OpenPGP signature files
This program takes a detached ascii armored OpenPGP signature, a file
to check against, and a GPG keyring. It then verifies the signature.
As a curiosity it also prints OpenSSH-style random art for the key
that made the signature.

@node honingsburk
@section honingsburk -- simple Secure Shell honey pot
This demonstrates the server part of the SSH library. It starts up a
dummy SSH server that accepts logins with the username root and the
password toor. The server does not create a real PTY and the client
does not gain access to the computer running the server. It presents a
command line where all commands return an error. It uses a few
non-standard procedures from Ikarus.

@node secsh-client
@section secsh-client -- manually operated Secure Shell client
Most SSH clients try to provide a nice user experience. This one is
instead a command-line based manually operated client. After
establishing the initial connection you can use a few simplistic
commands to login, establish a session channel, read and write channel
data. You can also enable debugging if you'd like to see a packet
trace. This session log shows how to connect to a @code{honingsburk}
running on TCP port 2222:

@example
Industria SSH demo client.

Connecting to localhost port 2222...
Running key exchange...
a6:4b:7e:05:38:03:01:29:07:0c:58:a4:fe:c1:d8:02
+---[ECDSA 521]---+
|*++o..           |
|ooo .            |
|Eo   . .         |
|o +   + .        |
| + +   oS.       |
|  o .  o  .      |
|   .  o  .       |
|     o ..        |
|      o.         |
+-----------------+

localhost ecdsa-sha2-nistp521 AAAAE2VjZHNhLXNoYTItbmlzdHA1[...]
Please verify the above key.
SSH session established.
Type help for a list of commands.

localhost=> u "root"
Your request to use ssh-userauth was accepted.
You may try these authentication methods: (password)
localhost=> p "toor"
You've succesfully authenticated.
You now have access to the SSH connection protocol.
localhost=> s
New session opened.
Receive side parameters:
ID: 0 window size: 4096 maximum packet size: 32768
Send side parameters:
ID: 0 window size: 32768 maximum packet size: 32768
localhost=> t 0
localhost=> r
Linux darkstar 2.6.35.8 #1 Sat Oct 30 10:43:19 CEST 2010 i686

Welcome to your new account!
No mail.
localhost=> r

darkstar:~# 
localhost=> 
@end example
