@node Installation
@section Installation

The simple version: install Akku from
@url{https://github.com/weinholt/akku}. Run @code{akku install} in the
@code{industria} directory. This fetches the dependencies recorded in
@code{Akku.lock} and installs everything to @code{.akku}. Run
@code{source .akku/bin/activate} to start using Industria in your R6RS
Scheme of choice.

The longer version: extend your Scheme library search path to include
the @code{industria} directory, e.g.@: if you're using Chez Scheme on a Unix
system and you unpacked Industria in @code{~/scheme}:
@verbatim
export CHEZSCHEMELIBDIRS=$HOME/scheme
@end verbatim

Other possible environment variables include @code{IKARUS_LIBRARY_PATH},
@code{LARCENY_LIBPATH}, @code{MOSH_LOADPATH} and @code{YPSILON_SITELIB}.
For more details please refer to your Scheme implementation's
documentation.
An alternative is to move or symlink the @code{industria} directory into a
directory that already exists in your Scheme's search path.
Download the dependencies noted in the Akku.lock file and install them
in the library path.

Releases and the latest source code for Industria are available at
GitHub @url{https://github.com/weinholt/industria/}.
@cindex development snapshots

@node Usage
@section Usage
To load an R6RS library into your program or library, put it in the
@code{import} specification. Here's Hello World for R6RS Scheme:

@lisp
#!/usr/bin/env scheme-script
(import (rnrs))
(display "Hello World!\n")
@end lisp
@cindex Hello World, example

The first line is useful on Unix systems, but it is specified in the
R6RS Non-Normative Appendices, so your Scheme might not accept
programs with that line present.

See the @code{programs/} and @code{tests/} directories for examples.
